draft_for_release_7.2 (#198)
BuckleScript/bucklescript.github.io: website/blog/2020-03-12-release-7-2.md

---
title: Announcing bs-platform  7.2
---

> Today we are pround to release `bs-platform 7.2`!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today we are proud to release `bs-platform 7.2`!
```

> For those unfamilar with bs-platform, it is the platform that provides compiling [ReasonML](https://reasonml.github.io/) and [OCaml](https://ocaml.org/) to fast and readable JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For those unfamiliar with bs-platform, it is the platform that provides compiling [ReasonML](https://reasonml.github.io/) and [OCaml](https://ocaml.org/) to fast and readable JavaScript.
```

You can try it with `npm i bs-platform`!

This is a major release with some highlighted features as below:

## In memory loading stdlib

Since this release, the binary artifacts generated by stdlib are loaded from memory instead of external file systems, this means much faster compilation and installation.

> The installation is so fast that we would recommend to install it locally instead of global as before since it provides better isolation. You can use it with a nice tool called [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx).

Author: like `npx bsb`

> The installation is so fast that we would recommend to install it locally instead of global as before since it provides better isolation. You can use it with a nice tool called [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx).

Reviewer 2: (I meant it would be good to include that detail in the sentence)

> The installation is also compatible with `--ignore-scripts` for major platforms, it provides more stability with [yarn](https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn)

Author: yarn used to delete some artifacts randomly

## let %private

In OCaml's module system, everything is public by default, the only way to hide some values is by providing a separate signature to list public fields and their types:

```reasonml
module A : { let b : int} = {
    let a = 3 ;
    let b = 4 ; 
}
```

> `let` `%privte` gives you an option to mark private fields directly

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`let` `%private` gives you an option to mark private fields directly
```

```reasonml
module A  = {
    let%private a  = 3;
    let b  = 4;
}
```

`let%private` also applies to file level modules, so in some cases, user does not need to provide a separate interface file just to hide some particular values.

Note interface file is still recommended as good practice since it gives you better separate compilation and interface file is good for documentation, `let%private` is useful in such scenarios:

- Code generators. Some code generators want to hide some values but it is sometimes very hard or time consuming for code generators to synthesize the types for public fields.

- Quick prototyping. During prototyping, we still want to hide some values, but the interface file is not stable yet, `let%private` provide you such convenience.

## Int64 performance optimization

> Per some users' feedback that some operations in Int64 is the bottleneck  of their code path, in particular `Int64.to_string`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Per some users' feedback that some operations in Int64 are the bottleneck of their code path, in particular `Int64.to_string`.
```

> After some hard work, without changing the underlynig representation, our `Int64.to_string` is evern faster than `bigint` for common input:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After some hard work, without changing the underlying representation, our `Int64.to_string` is even faster than `bigint` for common input:
```

> After some hard work, without changing the underlying representation, our `Int64.to_string` is even faster than `bigint` for common input:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We responded to this, and after some hard work - but _without_ changing the underlying representation - our `Int64.to_string` is even faster than `bigint` for common inputs.
```

> A micro-benchmark is as below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A micro-benchmark for comparison:
```

```
running on 7.1
Int64.to_string: 367.788ms # super positive number 
Int64.to_string: 140.451ms # median number
Int64.to_string: 375.471ms # super negative number

bigint
Int64.to_string: 25.151ms
Int64.to_string: 12.278ms
Int64.to_string: 21.011ms

latest
Int64.to_string: 43.228ms
Int64.to_string: 5.764ms
Int64.to_string: 43.270ms
```

> We also apply such optimizations to other Int64 operations. Note Int64 is implemented in OCaml itself without any raw JavaScript, this is a strong use case which supports that our optimizing compiler not only provide expressivity and type safe guarantee but also empowers users to write maintainable efficient code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also apply such optimizations to other Int64 operations.

Note that Int64 is implemented in OCaml itself without any raw JavaScript. This is case compelling hints that our optimizing compiler not only provides expressivity and type-safe guarantees, but also empowers users to write maintainable, *efficient* code.
```

## File level compilation flags

> In this release, we also provide a handy flag to allow user override some configurations in file level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this release, we also provide a handy flag to allow users to override some configurations at the file level.
```
